Resume

Alex Kapranoff, +7(910)456-5681, kapranoff@gmail.com.

Current residence: Moscow, Russia.

== Work experience:

Mar 11-present day, Yandex, the leading Internet search engine in
Russia, http://yandex.ru.
I am the backend manager for the Yandex Mail product. I design and
manage processes in development and maintainance of the product.  I
manage several teams of developers and sysadmins — 20-30 people
combined.  We serve 10 million people weekly on the Web and receive
100 million emails each day. We are the second largest mailbox
provider in Eastern Europe.

Jan 09-Dec 10, CTO at nadoby.ru, a startup around lead generation
and social search. 3 to 6 people, Amazon EC2, Perl, nginx, PostgreSQL,
lots of AJAX. I did less of programming and more of architecture
design, HR, operations, project and product management.

Aug 07-Jan 09 — Head of Mail at Rambler.Ru. Went up from 3 people to 2
departments with 17 people combined. 50+ million registered accounts,
15+ million active users, 200+ servers at Rambler data center. Lots of
management and also lots of really hard technical problems.

Jun 04-Aug 07 — system developer at Rambler.Ru. High load dynamic
websites, email systems. Perl, Apache API, IMAP4, memcached, XML,
AJAX, MySQL etc.

Jun 03-May 04 — web developer at "Channel One Russia", the number one
broadcasting company in Russia. Perl, high load websites, e.g.
official presidential and parliament elections sites v2003.ru,
v2004.ru. Also, worked for Dni.Ru as the main developer, maintainer and web
master in parallel.

Mar 03-Jun 03 — system and web developer at INLINE Technologies.
Telco billing systems. Perl, Oracle, MySQL.

Mar 02-Mar 03 — Perl developer at AGAVA Software, web hosting
department.  Hosting infrastructure, electronic payments.

since 1999 — several jobs (full and part-time) as a developer.  ERM in
Delphi, then FreeBSD ISP infrastructure, then Dni.ru online news
outlet, then web studio with lots of PHP+Oracle+XML/XSLT.

== Education:

Specialist (5 years), Bryansk State Technical University, degree with
honours in Automated Systems Software (Computer Science). Regular
speaker at student conferences, local ACM ICPC team member, then
coach. Degree work on biometric identification and authentication
systems.

One year of postgraduate studies in Moscow Institute of Electronic
Engineering, Moscow.

== Qualifications Summary:

Perl:					14 years
Unix/Linux:				14 years
JavaScript:				9 years
SQL databases:			13 years
Technical management:	5.5 years

TCP/IP, FreeBSD, Linux, development tools starting from RCS, gdb, then
to CVS, Perforce, SVN, Mercurial, git. Did some work in C, then mostly
switched to Perl. Also, write a lot of JavaScript. Know a lot of other
programming languages but rarely use any of them professionally.

As a manager I'm a strict adept of "give developers a lot of freedom"
philosophy.  I don't micro-manage and that requires that I hire only
the best people.

I also have special interests in web security. I did a lot of
anti-XSS, anti-CSRF etc. work and gave public talks on it.

I love to work on legacy or foreign code (really!), doing security and
quality analysis, debug and document it.

== Public activity:

Regular speaker and organizer of technical workshops and conferences
in Russia, Ukraine and other CIS countries. RIT, C-IB, Highload++,
ClientSide, YAPC::Russia etc. See, e.g., http://perlrussia.ru. Also,
gave two talks in English at YAPC::Europe conferences.

I contributed to several Open Source projects and take part in online
professional communities.

== Misc:

Fluent written English, mostly fluent spoken English.
